= Scribd_fu
A Ruby on Rails plugin that streamlines interaction with the Scribd service
(scribd.com), and even works with +attachment_fu+ or Paperclip!

== What it does
Scribd_fu hides out in the shadows like a document converting ninja, just
waiting to process your data into a convenient Flash format (like YouTube) with
the help of the black majick of Scribd.com. Imagine embedding huge documents
right inline with your web UI, no downloading, no necessary programs on the
client side (except for Flash) to view your data. It's pretty damned cool.

== Requirements
Scribd_fu requires the rscribd gem for talking to scribd, and either the wicked
awesome +attachment_fu+ plugin or the equally awesome Paperclip plugin.

== How to Install

=== RScribd
If you're using Rails 2.1 or greater, you probably want to add rscribd to your
required gems. Add this line to config/environment.rb in the initializer block:
 config.gem 'rscribd'
Once you do this, you can just do:
 $ rake gems:install
Instead of running the gem install below.

If you're using Rails pre-2.1:
 $ gem install rscribd

=== +attachment_fu+
If you want to install +attachment_fu+, you should probably use the git
repository on github. If you're using Rails 2.1 or greater:
 $ script/plugin install git://github.com/technoweenie/attachment_fu.git

Otherwise, clone the git repository into your app's vendor/plugins directory:
 $ cd vendor/plugins && git clone git://github.com/technoweenie/attachment_fu.git
And remember to get rid of the .git directory:
 $ rm -Rf attachment_fu/.git

=== Paperclip
If you'd rather use Paperclip (the most important advantage, with respect to
Scribd_fu, will be being able to have more than one document-related column in a
single model), you should probably require it as a gem dependency rather than
using it in plugin form. In Rails 2.1 or greater:
 config.gem 'paperclip'
Then run:
 $ rake gems:install
To install it.

If you're using Rails pre-2.1, you can still get it as a plugin by cloning the
git repository into your app's vendor/plugins directory:
 $ cd vendor/plugins && git clone git://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip.git
And remember to get rid of the .git directory:
 $ rm -Rf paperclip/.git

== How to Use

=== Shared steps
* Sign up for Scribd (it's totally free) at http://www.scribd.com/publisher/signup_api.
* Copy the vendor/plugins/scribd_fu/scribd.yml.example file to config/scribd.yml and fill
  it out with your Scribd login credentials.

=== +attachment_fu+
Enter the below line into any attachment_fu-using model whose attachment you'd like to
Scribdify:
 acts_as_scribd_document

Add the following fields into a new migration for the target model (and update your schema!):
 t.integer :scribd_id
 t.string  :scribd_access_key
Scribd_fu will use these to track scribd-related information.

Now, when you upload a file to that model, Scribd_fu will automatically handle
the scribd side of things for you. No muss, no fuss. Files are uploaded to
scribd when the model is saved. If the file fails to upload to scribd, the model
save will fail.

Scribd_fu also provides the +validates_as_scribd_document+ validation, which
verifies that the document's information is being saved correctly (i.e., that
the +content_type+, +scribd_id+, and +scribd_access_key+ are present) and that
the attachment is scribdable to begin with (that is to say, that the content
type of the file is a scribdable content type).

Note that Scribd_fu will only upload the file to Scribd. Scribd then has to
convert it to their iPaper format. Usually this is a pretty fast operation, but
if you want to be safe or have a contingency plan in case someone tries to
access the document and it isn't converted yet, the set of methods
<tt>conversion_complete?</tt>, <tt>conversion_successful?</tt>, and
<tt>conversion_error?</tt> can be used to determine the current conversion
status of the document. Also note that if you try to display a file that hasn't
been converted to scribd yet, the iPaper viewer will actually say that it is
still converting with a spinner, so these methods will often not be necessary.

To view a Scribd document, just throw the below code into your view (where
@document is an object of your Scribd/Attachment_fu model):
 <%= display_scribd(@document) %>
That's it!

=== Paperclip
For each attachment that you want to be scribdable, mark it using the
+has_scribdable_attachment+ method. For example, if I had the line:
 has_attached_file :document
And I wanted the +document+ attachment to be scribdable, I would add:
 has_scribdable_attachment :document

In addition, you have to add two columns for each scribdable attachment. These
are +_scribd_id+ and +_scribd_access_key+, both prefixed by the attachment name.
For the above example, we would have the following migration statements:
 t.integer :document_scribd_id
 t.string  :document_scribd_access_key

Scribdable attachments can also be validated using the
+validates_attachment_scribdability+ validation:
 validates_attachment_scribdability :document
This validation checks that the content type, scribd id, and access key are all
available, and it verifies that the content type is a scribdable content type.

As mentioned in the +attachment_fu+ section, Scribd_fu will only upload the file
to Scribd. Scribd then has to do the actual conversion to iPaper. For tracking
the status of this conversion, you have three methods, each of which take the
attachment whose status you want:
* <tt>conversion_complete?</tt> -- e.g.,
  <tt>model.conversion_complete?(:document)</tt>
* <tt>conversion_successful?</tt> -- e.g.,
  <tt>model.conversion_successful?(:document)</tt>
* <tt>conversion_error?</tt> -- e.g.,
  <tt>model.conversion_error?(:document)</tt>

Also note that if you try to display a file that hasn't been converted to scribd
yet, the iPaper viewer will actually say that it is still converting with a
spinner, so these methods will often not be necessary.

To view a Scribd document, just throw the below code into your view (where
@model is an object of your Scribd/Paperclip model, and +document+ is the
name of the scribdable attachment):
 <%= display_scribd(@model, :document) %>
That's it!

== Further Info
You can make your Scribd documents private or public, to choose, just modify the
scribd.yml file and enter 'private' or 'public' in the 'access' key.

== About the Author
My name is Matt Darby. I'm a 28 year old professional Web Developer and IT
Manager. I am the IT Manager and Lead Web Developer at Dynamix Engineering and
recently earned a Master's Degree in Computer Science from Franklin University
in Columbus, OH.

Feel free to check out my blog (http://blog.matt-darby.com) or to recommend me
on http://workingwithrails.com
